This phylogeny shows evolutionary relationships of hCoV-19 (or SARS-CoV-2) viruses from the ongoing novel coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic with a particular focus on Belgium. In addition, we include virus genomes from other European countries and to lesser extent from the rest of the world to provide phylogenetic context. This context is important to understand how different outbreaks are connected and how the virus might have spread around the globe. We note, however, that direct linkage on the tree does not necessarily mean there exists a direct epidemiological link. Sampling of viral genomes is very incomplete and heterogeneous and mutations occur on average only every two weeks. Extended periods without mutations are therefore not uncommon and direct links or directionality cannot be inferred from the tree alone.

Sequence data and postal code (or zip code) information for the Belgian sequences have been made available in accordance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This leads to three important phenomena: 1. of all the SARS-CoV-2 sequences generated within Belgium, a significant proportion have not been cleared to be made publicly available; 2. postal codes could not be released for all available genomic sequences and are hence assigned the postal code of the sequencing center (e.g. postal code 9000 for Ghent, despite the patients not residing in that postal code); 3. three N501Y,69-70 variants have been sequenced so far in Belgium but the sequences can currently not be made publicly available.

All genetic sequence data we use (European and international) are deposited in GISAID.
We gratefully acknowledge the authors, originating and submitting laboratories of the genetic sequence and metadata made available through GISAID on which this research is based.
The following Belgian sequencing centers were essential towards building this Nextstrain instance: the University of Liège (GIGA Medical Genomics), the KU Leuven (Rega Institute, Division of Clinical and Epidemiological Virology), the University of Ghent (Faculty of Health & Medicine and Faculty of Veterinary Medicine) and the Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp.
We gratefully acknowledge contributions of Belgian sequences by the Erasmus Medical Center (Rotterdam, The Netherlands) and support by the Research Foundation - Flanders (Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek - Vlaanderen) and the Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique (FNRS, Belgium).
A full listing of all originating and submitting laboratories is available below. An attribution table is available by clicking on “Download Data” at the bottom of the page and then clicking on “Strain Metadata” in the resulting dialog box.
